# public-domain-token
An open ERC20 token with public permissioned minting.

Usually when someone launches an ERC20 token, if the total capped supply is not minted during contract deployment, issuance will be generated via staking, mining, or direct manual minting through a governance contract.  In most cases, issuance is controlled by one party, even if that party abdicates their control after issuance has completed.  In these instances, the token is usually issued for a specific purpose, whether to facilitate governance over a specific DAO or on-chain product, to serve as a medium of exchange for a specific product, etc.  And in most cases, the the token issuer is usually a stakeholder in whatever the token utility is intended to be.

I thought it would be an interesting experiment to deploy a token with a dynamic that I hope will contrast the typical token approach.  Instead of having a single issuer, this token has multiple potential issuers based on an authorized issuer list.  The issuer list is completely open and permissionless save for a hard cap to the number of authorized issuers at any given time.  So any address can authorize itself as an issuer as long as the cap has not been reached.

Issuers have the ability to mint tokens and burn tokens as long as their address is still authorized.  Authorization expires after roughly 1 year, assuming 12s per block.  Issuers have the ability to mint an arbitrary number of tokens and may mint an arbitrary number of times while their address is authorized.  However, the amount of tokens they can mint is limited by hardcoded minting logic based on a base factor relative to the total supply of the token.  This factor is then influenced by data that is specific to each issuer, namely how many tokens they have minted, how often they mint, how many tokens they have burned, and how often they burn - all over the duration of their current issuer authorization.  The more an issuer mints, the less tokens they will be able to mint in the future.  However, this can be offset by burning tokens.  It's up to issuers to decide what ratio of minting to burning best suits their purposes.

After deployment, the ownership of the contract will be transferred to itself.  None of the contract paramaters will be governable.  The operation of the contract will be entirely autonomous and deterministic based on the existing deployed code.  However, the token is built off of OpenZeppelin's contract libraries including `ERC20Burnable`, `ERC20Permit`, `Ownable`, `ERC20Votes`, and `ERC20FlashMint`.  Hopefully this gives the token a wide range of potential utility such that issuers can chose to use the token for a number of different purposes.

In an ideal world, anyone can use the token for anything, as long as they consider the fact that they will not be the only authorized issuer at any given time.  This introduces some interesting new areas for experimentation and game theory.  Will issuers coordinate and collaborate to maintain the health of the token ecosystem and all of the various connected stakeholders?  Or will the issuer ecosystem quickly devolve into pure PvP? 
